---
title: Bad Banks
author: Michael Schurter
layout: post
date: 2009-03-09
url: /2009/03/08/bad-banks/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 480757776
categories:
  - Personal
tags:
  - banks
  - fb
  - Personal

---
While I try to keep up with the news, like most Americans I really have only a vague picture of this financial crisis we&#8217;re in, and how to get out.

Here are a couple pieces of media I&#8217;ve found helpful in figuring out whats going on:

  1. [This American Life did an excellent episode called Bad Banks][1] which nicely explains the basic fundamentals of the banking industry.
  2. Last week I half jokingly told friends on Thursday I expected to wake up Friday morning to find that the government had taken over the banking system. One of my friends passed on this link to an excellent [60 Minutes* piece on what happens when banks fail and are taken over by the FDIC][2] (short story: _[Don&#8217;t Panic][3]_).

I think the best line from either of those pieces is from the This American Life episode when professor David Beim states:

> The problem is not the banks, greedy though they may be, overpaid though they may be. **The problem is us.** We have over-borrowed. We have been living very high on the hog.

<small>(emphasis mine)</small>

_And now, the rest of the story&#8230;_

But this is a blog! I can&#8217;t just post some links without expounding upon my own poorly informed views! I&#8217;m an American dammit!

So here are some of my current thoughts:

  * **I&#8217;m pro stimulus package.** If there&#8217;s ever a time for deficit spending its when the economy is in trouble and people need jobs. The _wrong_ time for deficit spending is to destroy and then rebuild sovereign nations for no good reason.
  * I believe the government should **Take over _all_ the failed banks**. These _too-big-to-fail_ behemoths should be taken over, parceled up, and sold off. Too-big-to-fail is unacceptable. The tax payers would probably end up paying a price for this, but consider it the **War on Bad Banks**. Over the past 8 years we&#8217;ve paid billions to fight a mostly phony &#8220;War on Terror&#8221;, why not spend billions on something that would have a positive result for humanity?
  * In the future we need regulations similar to anti-trust laws to prevent so few corporations from wielding so much power. In the computer world we turn to distributed systems to provide redundancy in case of failure. The non-geeky world has a nice little saying for this: _don&#8217;t put all your eggs in one basket._

* * *

<small>* I hadn&#8217;t seen the 60 Minutes in years. The journalist doing the story kind of annoyed me, but overall I thought it addressed something on the minds of many Americans in a very personal way.</small></p>

 [1]: http://www.thisamericanlife.org/Radio_Episode.aspx?episode=375
 [2]: http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2009/03/06/60minutes/main4848047.shtml
 [3]: http://i2.photobucket.com/albums/y34/dilliwag/panic.jpg